Add documentation for CA1868 (#36379)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/quality-rules/ca1865.md

 - CA1865
 - DoNotGuardSetAddOrRemoveByContainsAnalyzer
helpviewer_keywords:
 - CA1865
author: mpidash
dev_langs:
 - CSharp
 - VB
---

# CA1865: Unnecessary call to 'Contains' for sets

|                                     | Value                                  |
| ----------------------------------- |----------------------------------------|
| **Rule ID**                         | CA1865                                 |
| **Category**                        | [Performance](performance-warnings.md) |
| **Fix is breaking or non-breaking** | Non-breaking                           |
| **Enabled by default in .NET 7**    | No                                     |

## Cause

An <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add%2A> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove%2A> (<xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Remove%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>) call is guarded by a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Contains%2A> (<xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Contains%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>).

## Rule description

> Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add%2A> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove%2A> perform a lookup which makes calling <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Contains%2A> before redundant. It is more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add%2A> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove%2A> directly, which will return a Boolean value indicating whether an item has been added or removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> perform a lookup, which makes it redundant to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Contains(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> beforehand. It's more efficient to call <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add(%600)> or<xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove(%600)> directly, which returns a Boolean value indicating whether the item was added or removed.
```

> This also applies to <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Remove%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>, except that they either return a new set when an item is added or removed, or the original set otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This logic also applies to <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Remove(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>, except that they either return a new set if the item is added or removed, or the original set if it wasn't.
```

## How to fix violations

> Replace the call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Contains%2A> (<xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Contains%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>) that is followed by a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add%2A> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove%2A> (<xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Add%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Remove%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType>) with a single call to the latter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace the call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Contains(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> (or <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Contains(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>) that's followed by a call to <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ISet%601.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Collections.Generic.ICollection%601.Remove(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> (or <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Add(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType> or <xref:System.Collections.Immutable.IImmutableSet%601.Remove(%600)?displayProperty=nameWithType>) with a single call to the latter method.
```
